- [Instructor] Hi and welcome back.
We are here on the dictionaries
and students coding exercise,
and this is a slightly longer
and more complex exercise,
because we are progressing
through the course,
and we are getting deeper into Python.
So let's have a look.
It has three parts.
First one, create a dictionary
variable called student.
It's partially defined here,
and we're gonna look into exactly
how we create this variable.
Then we're going to modify
a variable called grades
down here so that it contains
the value of a dictionary's key.
We've got more information
on the comments.
And finally, we're going
to implement a function
calculating a total average
grade for a class of students,
with again, good more
information on the comments.
Let's go straight in.
For the first one, we're
going to create a variable
called students that
had a dictionary in it,
and the dictionary has
to contain three keys,
name, school, and grades.
Okay, so let's do that first.
The dictionary as we know
is with opening and closing curly braces.
And then we're gonna
have name is something,
school is something,
and grades is something.
We don't know what yet.
Let's have a look.
The values for each must be Jose for name,
computing for school, and a topple
with the values 66, 77, and 88 for grades.
Let's do that.
The name has to be Jose, which is my name.
School has to be computing.
Definitely not that,
computing, there we go.
Normally I can spell.
And that the grades have to have a topple
with the values 66, 77, and 88,
so we're gonna delete that
string, quotation marks,
and we're gonna put the topple
in here, 66, 77, and 88.
Notice that because this is a topple
with multiple values, we
don't need a comma at the end.
In fact, we should not put it in there.
Okay, so now we have our student.
And we can move on to the
next set of instructions.
Assume the argument, data,
which is the argument
to this function here, is a dictionary.
Modify the grades variable so it accesses
the grades key of the data dictionary.
Okay, so the grades variable right now
doesn't equal anything,
and we have to make it
equal to the grades key
of the data dictionary.
Well, we know how to access
a key in a dictionary.
We just have to do data,
which is our argument,
our dictionary, grades.
There we go.
Now, the grades variable is accessing
the grades key of the data dictionary.
There we go.
Some other students have
done this, student['grades'],
and that is a totally
reasonable thing to do,
except the student variable
is a global variable
that is available for every
method, every function.
So whenever we call this function here,
this average grade
function, we're always going
to use this variable here
instead of the argument, which is data.
This means that if we call average grade
with this variable here as an argument,
then it will work fine.
But if we call it with
a different argument,
then it will still use the
student dictionary here,
and it will return incorrect data.
So make sure to use, as, oh sorry.
I'm pressed them to pressing
save on every few seconds,
make sure to use that data argument there.
And finally, implement the function below,
which is average grade for all students.
Given a list of students,
which as we know are dictionaries,
calculate the average grade of the class.
So, given a list of students,
that's this student list here,
this is the list of our students,
we must add all the grades
of all students together,
and you must also count
how many grades there are
in total in the entire list.
Okay, so we have two
variables, total and count.
Presumably, total must be
the sum of all the grades,
and count must be the amount
of grades that we have.
And from each student
in this student list,
we have to add to these two variables
so that at the end, it returns
the total divided by the count,
which should give us the average.
So, how do we calculate the total?
Well, we can say total
equals total plus the sum
of the student grades.
And then the sum is going
to add up all the values
in a list or a topple,
and the student is, each of the students
in the student list, student grades
will give us that topple.
Sum will give us the total of that topple,
and it's going to modify
the total variable
so that it is the existing number
of total plus the sum
of this other student,
and the count is going
to be count equals count
plus the length of the student grades.
And that is going to give us
the count of student
grades for this student.
It's gonna add it to the existing count,
and it's gonna override the count variable
with that value.
And then at the end,
we're gonna return total
divided by count, which is
going to give us the average.
Because it's quite common
to do total = total +
and count = count +, with any variable,
Python gives us a shortcut,
which is +=, +=.
So this means the same thing.
Total is gonna add to the total
the sum of the student grades,
and it's gonna add to the count
the length of the student grades.
Notice that if you do just count plus
the length of student
grades, you're calculating
what you want, but you
are not assigning it
back to the variable, so
hence, this would not work.
You need the equal sign there.
Let's check the solution,
and it should give us
that all is correct.
And indeed, there we go.
So now we've learned a bit more
about how this sort of works.
Hopefully you managed to do
this on your own earlier,
but if not, hopefully
this clears things up.
I'll see you on the next video.